So in the previous video we talked
about Scope for the first time.
So what we will do is we'll actually
test that with a challenge at the end of
this video or possibly the next depending
on how long the video goes for.
But we'll be talking about visibility.
In Java getting back to scope, things
can be a little bit more complicated and
that's because objects themself also have
visibility but before I actually go about
explaining that what we'll do is
we'll do a bit of refactoring so
our private file variable names will
have different variables themselves.
Have different names, which is going
to make them easy for us to refer to.
So first the in scope check itself,
what we're going to do is we're going to
refactor the private var, call it var one.
So I'm just going to click on that,
right click, refactor 39,
I'm gonna call that DAR 1R1.
Noting all the places in the code
where that's being updated.
Note down here Intuijay was smart enough
to figure out, okay you're using the field
which is part of scope check,
and it's updating that as well.
So I'm gonna press enter then,
to accept that.
And I need to put a space there.
Actually, what I'll do is I'll undo that.
I'll try again.
I'll right-click, refactor, rename.
And I'll delete all this
extra stuff out this time.
I wanna call this one var 1.
Var 1.
Press Enter.
And, it's actually telling us, do we want
to actually rename the getter, as well.
And that can be a good idea because at
the moment it's called getPrivateVar.
So I would say yes to that.
And down here, what we need to do is we
need to actually click on Do ReFactor.
Basically, are we happy with the scope?
ANd this is the way that Intellgioso
what's going to basically change.
In this case, it's quite Quite simple
as you can see what can be changed.
But in cases where you've got a lot of
code, you can actually come down here and
actually see all the places where
the code's gonna be changed and
it can be really useful.
In this case, I'll click on do refactor.
And you can see we've changed
all the variable names.
And also note the getter has
now been changed as well.
I'm gonna change this, actually.
And then leave that as for now.
So let's scope check.
In the inner class what we
want to do is we actually want
to rename the field to Val three.
So I'm going to come down here,
and rename that rather to Val
three with re-factor, re-name.
Var three press Enter and
then again we're gonna do the refractor
cuz there is more of a place.
I'm just gonna accept that, that's being
updated and you're coming back here to
the scope check method times two,
we're actually gonna rename that,
I could just type it but
I'm just gonna refactor it again.
Refactor, rename,
I could of pressed Shift+F6
there as you can see on the screen
if I wanted to go directly to that.
And you just hit Shift+F6
also in Win Linux.
And delete that and we can change that and
we'll call it varTwo.
Just so we're really clear now and
incidentally when I did the first
refractor it also changed
what was in double quotes.
So I could of actually got it
just to change the variables,
just not make that other change but
in this case I just accepted it all so
It actually has changed
the actual name of the variable,
also in the double quotes as well,
the actual string representation.
Lastly, going back to main,
then here what we'll do just, again,
to be consistent we're gonna rename or
refactor that.
I'm gonna call this file four.
Notice I will say that when we rename
the getter it automatically changed that
in main method so again pretty cool how
IntelliJ could do a lot of that work for
you, making things a lot easier.
Notice also what's happened here,
this is probably not what we
wanted when I did the renaming of
in scope check for the third variable,
I'll just go back and have a look.
var3.
It actually renamed this as well and
that's because the match on the name.
I can actually rename that as well.
I'm going to change that back.
That should really be var1 now because
this is where we're getting it from.
We're getting it from the scopeInstance
and it should match that.
I'll just come back here.
I actually made a typo there.
I'll refactor that again.
[SOUND].
Let's call that bar three because
then you can see that and
then you've got it working.
I am going back to the inner class.
What we're going to do there is we're
going to actually show the bar three and
I actually bar three there.
Because that's actually what it is now.
So, I was showing the value
of the inner class.
Let's also show value one as one.
So, value one, one is plus value one.
Plus in val three, and
coming back here I'll delete that
method call which was an example.
And I'm going to actually print out
file one is still available here.
You can see that we
haven't got an error so
as far as is concerned, it's actually
quite happy to put it in there.
So, now that I've done that,
the reason I was doing that is I want to
show the scope of each variable in turn.
So, starting with varOne,
a variable varOne,
the first one that we defined up here.
So, that scope is the entire
class scope check,
you can see that's used in
the constructor varOne.
But I've also actually put it in the inner
class as well, you can see its in
the inner class constructor as
well as the times two method.
So the class and all the interclasses
have got access to varOne.
And that's because it's
a field of scope check.
And because we renamed it, it's no longer
shadowed by the inner class field,
cuz the inner class field has got
a different name now, varThree.
That's why we can actually print it out
without having to put a this prefix or
anything like that.
Let's fix that up there, but But
also here in the time [INAUDIBLE] method.
We don't need to put this
dot prefix because it;s
actually a different name now.
So what this confirms is
that the object scope
is the block in which it's declared
including any contained blocks.
So looking.
Looking at varTwo,
and of course varTwo is here.
So looking at varTwo, that's defined
in the timesTwo method for scopeCheck.
So that includes the for loop, and varTwo
is also in scope with that as well as you
can see there, cuz it's defined above, and
it'll work within the next set of blocks,
the enclosing blocks, if you will.
varThree, which is was field in our
inner class, which is the inner class
to ScopeCheck That's in scope
anywhere within the inner class, and
we've got it printed in
the constructor as you can see.
Val3 there, and also multiplied
in the times two method as well,
down here as well.
So that's [INAUDIBLE] those two places.
And finally, coming back to main,
var4, the scope for
that's anywhere inside the main class and
the main method,
because it's a local variable for
the main method.
So it's worth noting here that
at no time did any of our other
Private val variables
shadow the one in main.
So that's a different class essentially.
So a variable can only shadow one
with the same name if it's declared
in an enclosed block.
So that brings us to the next topic,
which is visibility.
So in Java, an object's visibility is
governed by the axis modifiers, and
we'll be discussing
those in detail shortly.
But the thing to point out is that
visibility is connected to scope, and
we need to look at that aspect of
it first before covering the axis
modifiers themselves, and
how they actually relate to axis control.
So getting back to our scope check
If we look at the inner class
down at the bottom, starting at line 25,
we've printed out the value 1 variable
despite the fact that it was
the clearest private in the inner class.
And the inner class has access to
all the inner class variables Or
fields of its containing class.
So not only is varOne in scope within
the inner class it's also visible.
So the same is true the other way around.
So the containing class,
you can also access all the methods and
fields of a contained class even
if they're marked as private.
So we can actually check that.
But what we can do is create
a method in scope check
to instantiate its inner class and
print the varThree.
Variable.
So I'm gonna go in here making sure
I'm actually within scope check,
I'm not in the inner class at all, and
I'm gonna do, create a method
called public void useInner.
Within there I'm gonna type InnerClass,
noting how IntelliJ can see that.
InnerClass InnerClass
equals new InnerClass.
I can do system [INAUDIBLE]
print var three
from outer class plus
inner class.var three.
So now we've created the news inner,
what we want to do is go back to the main
method and actually call that
method that used inner method.
Up here, below the various print outs.
I want to actually put scope instance,
dot, using R.
Just touch and make sure that works.
Going to run that.
Far three from error class three's, so you
can see it's actually working fine there.
But, now if I actually go back to scope
check, I can change this to a private.
Run it again, and the code still works.
So notice that the scope of our var
3 hasn't extended to the outer class.
So we actually had to qualify
its name with the class instance
in order to print it out.
So, in a class.
As you can see there.
But the visibility does extend
into the outer class, but
with that said the variable itself can't
be accessed with any class external
to scope check and we can actually check
that Ourselves by going back to main and
seeing if we can access it.
So I'm going to comb out some
of these old lines for now.
Okay so after that then, if we actually
set up here top scope, check.interclass.
In a class equals scope
instance button new, in a class
and try and print out var three
is not accessible here in
a class dot noticing how IntelliJ
can't actually find the variable.
Now the reason we can't do that,
we can't run it,
we actually get an error, is because
var three's got private access and
therefore has no visibility outside its
class or a containing class of its class.
So in other words, from ScopeCheck or
ScopeCheck.InterClass.
But if we went back and actually changed
this, changed that so it was a public.
Notice that the arrow disappeared from
the, or the red disappeared from under
main.java and the error actually goes away
because we've now given visibility for
that variable by to any other class.
So I'm just gonna undo that change.
Let's go back to a private again.
So this concept now is moving away from
scope and into visibility and access.
But varOne and varThree's
visibility within the scope check
is related to the scope of the variables,
and
I think it's important to discuss that
before we move on to access modifiers
Sort of properly, in particular,
the fact that both var one and
var three are declared private,
as you can see on the screen there.
Private on line eight, and
also on line 31, but both can be
accessed from both the outer and inner.
Classes can actually be surprising
when you're starting Java.
So finally when we look at inheritance, we
often actually have a sub class override
a method from the superclass, in other
words the class that it was extending.
So the mechanism for this is very similar
into variable scope that we've discussed
so Java will look for a method in
that case in the current class.
Can use that if it finds it,
otherwise it's gonna look for
it in the immediate super class and so
on up the chain until it finds a class
that actually has the method but
with that said it's not actually correct
to say the overriding method shatters
the one in the superclass, override is
actually the correct term here not shadow.
If though the method was static then
it can be shadow dot overridden but for
now don't worry about that.
Until we get to the lecture
on the static keyword.
Because I want to talk
about that separately.
So time is ticking on.
I'm going to actually leave
the challenge to the next video.
So the next video, we'll go through
a challenge of the various things that
we've learnt in the last,
in this video and the previous one.
So I'll see you in the next video.